README.md, before:

ContinuumPort

Hybrid Semantic Continuity Layer for Multi-Agent AI
Version 0.1.0 (Public Concept Release)

ContinuumPort is a hybrid open specification designed to enable cross-session, cross-agent, and cross-model semantic continuity. It standardizes the way AI systems preserve user intent, semantic state, and task progress across otherwise isolated environments, accounts, devices, or models.

Unlike traditional context windows or memory embeddings, ContinuumPort defines a portable semantic container that can be passed between models, devices, agents, or applications, reconstructing continuity even when no shared history exists.

This repository provides:

High-level architecture

ContinuumPort-Core open standard specification

Tiny encoder/decoder implementations (JavaScript, Python, Rust)

Conceptual notes on proprietary ContinuumPort-Regen (not included)

Roadmap & licensing information

No proprietary code is included.

1. Problem Statement

Large Language Models (LLMs) are stateless by design. Every session reset, device change, or model switch loses all semantic progress.

ContinuumPort addresses these problems by introducing a semantic continuity transport layer:

Loss of semantic continuity across sessions

Lack of portability between different LLMs

Inability to hand off tasks between independent AI agents

Fragmented context across local and cloud AI environments

2. Concept Overview

ContinuumPort consists of three components:

2.1 Semantic Extractor (Open Standard)

A ruleset that converts conversation state into a portable semantic container, capturing:

User intent

Task progress

Entities

Key constraints

Persona / tone hints

Semantic state of the conversation

2.2 ContinuumPort-Core Token (Open Format)

A compressed, model-agnostic semantic container containing the minimal semantic state needed for context reconstruction.

Example conceptual structure:

{
  "version": 1,
  "language": "en",
  "summary": "Main user intent",
  "entities": ["agent", "token", "continuity"],
  "progress": "Semantic state of the conversation",
  "memoryHints": { "persona": "", "tone": "", "stage": 2 },
  "timestamp": 1732560000
}


No personal data is included.
Portable, safe, and model-agnostic.

2.3 ContinuumPort-Regen (Proprietary Layer)

The Regen engine converts CP-Core tokens into fully contextualized prompts for any LLM, reconstructing continuity with high fidelity (94–97%).

Closed-source and not included in this repository.
Commercial access via licensed API or on-premise deployment: continuumport@gmail.com

3. Open-Source Components (MIT – forever free)

Complete ContinuumPort-Core v1.0 specification

Tiny, specification-compliant encoder/decoder implementations (10–15 lines each) in:

JavaScript → /impl/js/encode-decode.js

Python → /impl/python/encode_decode.py

Rust → /impl/rust/src/lib.rs

These files contain only Base64 serialization logic — zero intelligence, zero regeneration.

4. Quick Start (Public Part Only)
// Example in JavaScript
import { encodeCP } from "./impl/js/encode-decode.js";

const token = encodeCP({
  v: 1,
  lang: "en",
  summary: "Enable semantic continuity across local and cloud AI models",
  entities: ["Ollama", "Grok", "Claude"],
  progress: "Discussed token format and IP protection",
  memoryHints: { taskStage: 5 }
});

console.log(token);
// → CP1:eyJ2IjoxLCJsYW5nIjoiZW4iLCJzdW1tYXJ5IjoiVnJlbSBjb250aW51a…


The Regen engine is proprietary and not included.

5. Roadmap

v0.2.0

Documentation expansion

Formal CP-Core schema

Conceptual integrations

v0.3.0

Public Regen API (commercial)

Multi-agent export tooling

v1.0.0

Official CP-Core standard

Marketplace for CP-compatible agents

SDKs (Python, Rust)

Commercial licensing of Regen engine

6. License

ContinuumPort-Core (semantic format & open extractor): MIT License

ContinuumPort-Regen (context reconstruction engine): Proprietary, not included

7. Notes

This repository demonstrates a conceptual public release of ContinuumPort.
It is not production-ready and serves to validate the concept of portable semantic continuity across AI systems.

This repository provides a technical preview of the ContinuumPort standard. It demonstrates the core principles of portable semantic continuity across AI systems but is not yet intended for production use.

Commit message:

Revise README notes and strategic alignment section
Updated notes section to include strategic alignment and clarify the purpose of the repository.

README.md, after:

ContinuumPort

Hybrid Semantic Continuity Layer for Multi-Agent AI
Version 0.1.0 (Public Concept Release)

ContinuumPort is a hybrid open specification designed to enable cross-session, cross-agent, and cross-model semantic continuity. It standardizes the way AI systems preserve user intent, semantic state, and task progress across otherwise isolated environments, accounts, devices, or models.

Unlike traditional context windows or memory embeddings, ContinuumPort defines a portable semantic container that can be passed between models, devices, agents, or applications, reconstructing continuity even when no shared history exists.

This repository provides:

High-level architecture

ContinuumPort-Core open standard specification

Tiny encoder/decoder implementations (JavaScript, Python, Rust)

Conceptual notes on proprietary ContinuumPort-Regen (not included)

Roadmap & licensing information

No proprietary code is included.

1. Problem Statement

Large Language Models (LLMs) are stateless by design. Every session reset, device change, or model switch loses all semantic progress.

ContinuumPort addresses these problems by introducing a semantic continuity transport layer:

Loss of semantic continuity across sessions

Lack of portability between different LLMs

Inability to hand off tasks between independent AI agents

Fragmented context across local and cloud AI environments

2. Concept Overview

ContinuumPort consists of three components:

2.1 Semantic Extractor (Open Standard)

A ruleset that converts conversation state into a portable semantic container, capturing:

User intent

Task progress

Entities

Key constraints

Persona / tone hints

Semantic state of the conversation

2.2 ContinuumPort-Core Token (Open Format)

A compressed, model-agnostic semantic container containing the minimal semantic state needed for context reconstruction.

Example conceptual structure:

{
  "version": 1,
  "language": "en",
  "summary": "Main user intent",
  "entities": ["agent", "token", "continuity"],
  "progress": "Semantic state of the conversation",
  "memoryHints": { "persona": "", "tone": "", "stage": 2 },
  "timestamp": 1732560000
}


No personal data is included.
Portable, safe, and model-agnostic.

2.3 ContinuumPort-Regen (Proprietary Layer)

The Regen engine converts CP-Core tokens into fully contextualized prompts for any LLM, reconstructing continuity with high fidelity (94–97%).

Closed-source and not included in this repository.
Commercial access via licensed API or on-premise deployment: continuumport@gmail.com

3. Open-Source Components (MIT – forever free)

Complete ContinuumPort-Core v1.0 specification

Tiny, specification-compliant encoder/decoder implementations (10–15 lines each) in:

JavaScript → /impl/js/encode-decode.js

Python → /impl/python/encode_decode.py

Rust → /impl/rust/src/lib.rs

These files contain only Base64 serialization logic — zero intelligence, zero regeneration.

4. Quick Start (Public Part Only)
// Example in JavaScript
import { encodeCP } from "./impl/js/encode-decode.js";

const token = encodeCP({
  v: 1,
  lang: "en",
  summary: "Enable semantic continuity across local and cloud AI models",
  entities: ["Ollama", "Grok", "Claude"],
  progress: "Discussed token format and IP protection",
  memoryHints: { taskStage: 5 }
});

console.log(token);
// → CP1:eyJ2IjoxLCJsYW5nIjoiZW4iLCJzdW1tYXJ5IjoiVnJlbSBjb250aW51a…


The Regen engine is proprietary and not included.

5. Roadmap

v0.2.0

Documentation expansion

Formal CP-Core schema

Conceptual integrations

v0.3.0

Public Regen API (commercial)

Multi-agent export tooling

v1.0.0

Official CP-Core standard

Marketplace for CP-compatible agents

SDKs (Python, Rust)

Commercial licensing of Regen engine

6. License

ContinuumPort-Core (semantic format & open extractor): MIT License

ContinuumPort-Regen (context reconstruction engine): Proprietary, not included

7. Notes & Strategic Alignment

ContinuumPort is the missing semantic continuity layer for the post-smartphone era.

As Elon Musk stated in November 2025:
> “We’re not going to have a phone in the traditional sense. What we’ll call a phone will really be an edge node for AI inference with some radios to connect.”

In this exact future, ultra-thin edge devices will have:
- zero persistent local storage
- zero traditional OS/apps
- zero ability to keep long-term context on-device

ContinuumPort solves the only remaining hard problem:  
how to seamlessly carry your personal semantic thread (tasks, intent, tone, progress, memory) between any edge node, any model (Grok, Claude, Llama, Mistral, Qwen, Gemini, local Ollama, etc.), any environment (cloud, offline, car, robot, glasses, implant).

No other open or closed solution currently exists at this fidelity and portability level.

This public repository contains only the open standard and minimal reference implementations.  
The high-fidelity reconstruction engine (ContinuumPort-Regen) remains proprietary and is available only under commercial license.

Interested in partnership, integration, or enterprise/on-premise Regen deployment?
